README.md, before:

# TL;DR
bokeh serve noise_survey_analysis --show
python -m noise_survey_analysis.main --generate-static /path/to/your/config.json

# Noise Survey Analysis Tool

An interactive Bokeh application for loading, analyzing, and visualizing noise survey data from various sound level meters.

## Overview

This tool provides a powerful, interactive dashboard for analyzing noise survey data from multiple measurement positions and file types simultaneously. It is designed for performance and interactivity, even with large datasets from manufacturers like Svan, NTi, and Noise Sentry.

## Key Features

*   **Unified Dashboard:** View time history, spectrograms, and frequency data for multiple positions in a single, synchronized view.
*   **Multi-Source Data Import:** Automatically parses and aggregates data from various formats, including NTi `.txt`, Svan `.csv`/`.xlsx`, and Noise Sentry `.csv`.
*   **High-Performance Spectrograms:** Utilizes an efficient rendering strategy for smooth, interactive spectrograms, even with millions of data points.
*   **Synchronized Chart Interaction:**
    *   Pan and zoom on one chart updates all other time-based charts simultaneously.
    *   A global range selector provides a full survey overview for easy navigation.
    *   Hovering over charts shows live data details and a synchronized vertical line.
    *   Clicking on a chart sets a persistent cursor and updates a detailed "Frequency Slice" bar chart.
*   **Synchronized Audio Playback (Live Server Only):**
    *   Listen to `.wav` audio recordings synchronized with the visualization timeline.
    *   Playback seeks automatically when you click on the charts.
    *   Clear visual indicators show which position is currently playing.
    *   Controls for play/pause, playback speed, and a +20dB volume boost for quiet recordings.
*   **Audio File Scanning (Wider Format Support):**
    *   The audio directory scanner now uses `soundfile` (libsndfile) to read durations, enabling support for common formats like WAV, FLAC, OGG, etc. WAV remains supported even without `soundfile`.
*   **Keyboard Navigation:** Use arrow keys for fine-grained time-stepping.
*   **Static HTML Export:** Generate a single, self-contained HTML file of the dashboard for easy sharing and reporting (audio playback is disabled in static mode).
*   **Flexible Region Management:** Build multi-segment regions, merge related selections, and append new segments with the dedicated Add Area mode while metrics update automatically for the combined duration.

## Getting Started

### 1. Prerequisites

*   Python 3.8+
*   **VLC Media Player:** Must be installed on your system for audio playback to function in the live server mode.
*   `soundfile` Python package (included in `requirements.txt`) to read audio durations for multiple formats. On most platforms, wheels include `libsndfile`.
    *   If you build from source or encounter installation issues, install `libsndfile` via your OS package manager (e.g., `brew install libsndfile` on macOS, `apt-get install libsndfile1` on Debian/Ubuntu). Windows wheels typically bundle it.
*   Install the required Python packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

### 2. Run the Application

You can run the tool in three ways from your terminal:

**A) Live Interactive Server (Recommended)**

This is the primary mode for analysis. It starts a local web server and opens the interactive data source selector.

```bash
bokeh serve noise_survey_analysis --show
```

Your browser will open to the **Data Source Selector**, where you can:
*   **Scan a job directory** by providing a base path and job number.
*   **Drag and drop** data files or folders directly onto the window.
*   Select the files you want to include, assign position names, and load the dashboard.
*   **Save the selection** as a portable configuration file (`.json`) for quick reloading later.

**B) Live Server with a Configuration File**

If you have a previously saved configuration file, you can bypass the selector and load the dashboard directly. This is ideal for quickly revisiting a specific analysis.

```bash
bokeh serve noise_survey_analysis --show --args --config /path/to/your/config.json
```

**C) Generate a Static HTML File**

This mode processes data from a specified configuration file and packages the dashboard into a single `.html` file that you can easily email or archive. Audio playback is disabled in this mode.

```bash
python -m noise_survey_analysis.main --generate-static /path/to/your/config.json
```

This will generate a dashboard HTML file in the same directory as your configuration file.

### 4. Configuration File Format (`.json`)

Configuration files are the most robust way to manage your data selections. They are generated automatically when you click "Save Config" in the Data Source Selector, but you can also edit them manually.

The format is designed to be portable, meaning you can move the config file along with its data, and the application will still be able to find the files.

Here is an example of the `v1.2` format:

```json
{
  "version": "1.2",
  "created_at": "2023-10-27T15:00:00.000000",
  "config_base_path": "C:/Users/YourUser/Documents/NoiseSurveys/Job1234",
  "sources": [
    {
      "path": "Svan/Logs/Position1_data.csv",
      "position": "North",
      "type": "svan_log",
      "parser_type": "svan"
    },
    {
      "path": "Audio/Position1/",
      "position": "North",
      "type": "audio_dir",
      "parser_type": "audio"
    },
    {
      "path": "NTi/Position2_data.txt",
      "position": "East",
      "type": "nti_log",
      "parser_type": "nti"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Key Fields:**

*   `"config_base_path"`: The absolute path to the directory that serves as the root for all relative paths below. This is the key to portability.
*   `"sources"`: A list of data source entries.
*   `"path"`: The path to the data file or directory, relative to the `config_base_path`. The application combines these two paths to find the data.
*   `"position"`: The name for the measurement position that appears in the dashboard.
*   `"parser_type"`: The specific parser to use (`svan`, `nti`, `sentry`, `audio`, or `auto`).

## Working with Markers and Regions

The dashboard provides two complementary annotation tools that make it easy to flag interesting timestamps and build longer analysis windows.

### Markers

*   **Drop a marker** with a quick double-click on any time-based chart. A persistent vertical line appears at that timestamp across linked views.
*   **Remove a marker** by Ctrl+clicking near it. The app automatically removes the closest marker within the current viewport so you do not need pixel-perfect precision.
*   **Clear all markers** from the toolbar button in the Region & Marker panel when you want to start from a clean slate.

Markers are lightweight breadcrumbs—ideal for marking complaints, audio cues, or other single-moment references that you might revisit later in the session.

### Regions

Regions capture continuous time spans and power the metrics sidebar.

*   **Create a region** by holding **Shift** and dragging horizontally on a timeseries or spectrogram. A blue band appears on every chart for that position.
*   **Select a region** either by clicking the band on the chart or choosing it from the region list. Only one region is active at a time, and the active selection drives the metrics panel.
*   **Refine bounds** using **Shift + ←/→** to move the right edge and **Alt + ←/→** to move the left edge in ~3 s increments. Drag handles on the charts also respond to direct manipulation.
*   **Add more areas** to the active region with the **Add Area** button in the panel. Each new Shift+drag becomes an additional segment and metrics update for the combined duration. Toggle the button again to exit the add-area mode.
*   **Merge related regions** by selecting a source region, clicking **Merge Regions**, and choosing the destination. The panel walks you through the process and keeps a full audit trail in the Notes field.
*   **Delete segments or entire regions** with **Ctrl+click** (removes the hit segment, or the whole region if there is only one) or by using the Delete button in the panel list.
*   **Capture notes and metrics** in the detail view. LAeq, LAFmax, LAF90, and the Average Spectrum chart all update instantly when you adjust bounds.

Tip: Regions are stored per position, so you can maintain independent annotations for each measurement site without cross-contamination.

## Importing, Exporting, and Restoring Your Work

### Region files

Use the **Menu ▸ Export Regions** command to download a JSON file that contains every region’s bounds, notes, and the latest metric snapshot. **Menu ▸ Import Regions** rebuilds those regions in the current session and re-computes metrics against the newly loaded data so results stay consistent even if the underlying dataset has changed.

### Workspace saves

The **Menu ▸ Save Workspace** option captures the full Redux-style UI state—marker lists, active parameters, selected regions, viewport, and more—along with the set of source configurations currently in memory. The downloaded `workspace-*.json` file can be re-applied later in two ways:

1. **During an active session:** choose **Menu ▸ Load Workspace** and pick the JSON file. The interface is rehydrated immediately; if the save references different source files than the data you currently have loaded, the application warns you so you can reload matching data before continuing.
2. **When launching the server:** provide the saved workspace when starting Bokeh to arrive at the same layout automatically. For example:

    ```bash
    bokeh serve noise_survey_analysis --show --args \
        --config /path/to/config.json \
        --state  /path/to/workspace-2024-01-01T12-00-00.json
    ```

The workspace loader rehydrates the UI while the `--config` argument points to the data to load. If you only need to restore layout choices without changing the dataset, you can omit `--config` and load sources from the selector after the workspace applies.

## Project Structure

```
├── noise_survey_analysis/
│   ├── core/                 # Core backend logic
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── app_callbacks.py  # Python-side server callbacks
│   │   ├── app_setup.py      # Logic for loading and preparing configurations
│   │   ├── audio_handler.py  # VLC audio playback logic
│   │   ├── config.py         # Default configuration values
│   │   ├── data_manager.py   # Orchestrates data loading and aggregation
│   │   ├── data_parsers.py   # Parsers for different file formats (Svan, NTi, etc.)
│   │   ├── data_processors.py# Prepares data for complex Bokeh glyphs
│   │   └── utils.py          # Utility functions
│   ├── js/                   # Helper for loading JS code
│   │   └── loader.py
│   ├── static/js/            # Client-side JavaScript for interactivity
│   │   ├── app.js            # Main JS entry point
│   │   ├── core/             # Redux-style primitives (actions, root reducer)
│   │   │   ├── actions.js
│   │   │   └── rootReducer.js
│   │   ├── features/         # Feature-specific reducers, thunks, selectors, utils
│   │   │   ├── audio/
│   │   │   │   ├── audioReducer.js
│   │   │   │   └── audioThunks.js
│   │   │   ├── interaction/
│   │   │   │   ├── interactionReducer.js
│   │   │   │   └── interactionThunks.js
│   │   │   ├── markers/
│   │   │   │   ├── markersReducer.js
│   │   │   │   └── markersSelectors.js
│   │   │   ├── regions/
│   │   │   │   ├── regionReducer.js
│   │   │   │   ├── regionSelectors.js
│   │   │   │   ├── regionThunks.js
│   │   │   │   └── regionUtils.js
│   │   │   └── view/
│   │   │       ├── viewReducer.js
│   │   │       └── viewSelectors.js
│   │   ├── services/         # App-wide services and handlers
│   │   │   ├── eventHandlers.js
│   │   │   └── renderers.js
│   │   ├── chart-classes.js  # OO classes for charts
│   │   ├── data-processors.js# JS data processing (slicing, filtering)
│   │   ├── registry.js       # Registry wiring between models/controllers
│   │   ├── store.js          # Redux-like store implementation
│   │   ├── thunks.js         # Aggregated thunks facade
│   │   └── utils.js          # JS utility functions
│   ├── ui/                   # UI Widget and Component creation
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── components.py
│   │   └── data_source_selector.py # The interactive UI for selecting data
│   ├── visualization/        # Dashboard assembly and orchestration
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── dashBuilder.py
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── main.py               # Main application entry point
├── config.json               # User configuration for data sources
├── README.md                 # This file
└── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
```

## Core Architectural Concepts

### Data Flow

The application follows a clear, structured data flow:

*   **Application Start (main.py):** The app starts. If a `--config` argument is provided, it loads that file directly. Otherwise, it displays the interactive **Data Source Selector**.
*   **Data Selection (ui/data_source_selector.py):** The user selects files, which generates a source configuration in memory.
*   **Configuration Loading (core/app_setup.py):** The `load_config_and_prepare_sources` function parses the configuration (from file or the selector), resolves file paths, and groups data by position.
*   **Data Management (data_manager.py):** DataManager iterates through the configs. For each file path, it uses NoiseParserFactory to get the correct parser.
*   **Parsing (data_parsers.py):** The appropriate parser (e.g., NTiFileParser) reads a file and converts it into a standardized ParsedData object, separating broadband (totals_df) and spectral (spectral_df) data.
*   **Aggregation (data_manager.py):** DataManager adds the ParsedData to a PositionData object, which aggregates all data for a single measurement position (e.g., merging a log file and a summary file for the same site).
*   **Processing (data_processors.py):** Before visualization, GlyphDataProcessor transforms the raw spectral DataFrames into the specific, pre-padded data structures required by Bokeh's high-performance Image glyph.
*   **Component Creation (components.py):** Classes like TimeSeriesComponent and SpectrogramComponent create the individual Bokeh figures and their ColumnDataSources.
*   **Dashboard Assembly (dashBuilder.py):** DashBuilder orchestrates the entire process: it calls the data processor, instantiates all UI components, assembles them into a final layout, and sets up the JavaScript bridge.

### JavaScript State Management

The front-end interactivity is managed by a self-contained JavaScript application architecture (in `static/js/`). It follows a modern state management pattern similar to Redux:

*   **core/actions.js** defines the global action vocabulary and creators. `store.js` uses **core/rootReducer.js** to combine the feature reducers into the application state tree.
*   **features/** contains isolated slices for each domain (view, interaction, markers, regions, audio). Each feature provides its own reducer, selectors, and thunks so business logic stays modular.
*   **services/eventHandlers.js** listens for Bokeh UI events (e.g., tap, zoom), translates them into semantic thunks, and dispatches them.
*   **data-processors.js** computes derived data (e.g., slicing spectrogram buffers) whenever state changes.
*   **services/renderers.js** consumes the latest state plus derived data to update the visible Bokeh models.

This pattern keeps the code organized, predictable, and easier to debug and extend.

Commit message:

Refactor marker state management (#42)
* Refactor marker state management

* Handle typed arrays in marker metrics lookup

* Add marker management panel and tabbed side panel

* Add keyboard marker workflows and region creation toggle

* feat: switch annotation import export to csv

* Preserve multi-area regions in CSV workflow

* Fix Playwright harness setup and logging

* Load marker thunks in dashboard bundle

README.md, after:

# TL;DR
bokeh serve noise_survey_analysis --show
python -m noise_survey_analysis.main --generate-static /path/to/your/config.json

# Noise Survey Analysis Tool

An interactive Bokeh application for loading, analyzing, and visualizing noise survey data from various sound level meters.

## Overview

This tool provides a powerful, interactive dashboard for analyzing noise survey data from multiple measurement positions and file types simultaneously. It is designed for performance and interactivity, even with large datasets from manufacturers like Svan, NTi, and Noise Sentry.

## Key Features

*   **Unified Dashboard:** View time history, spectrograms, and frequency data for multiple positions in a single, synchronized view.
*   **Multi-Source Data Import:** Automatically parses and aggregates data from various formats, including NTi `.txt`, Svan `.csv`/`.xlsx`, and Noise Sentry `.csv`.
*   **High-Performance Spectrograms:** Utilizes an efficient rendering strategy for smooth, interactive spectrograms, even with millions of data points.
*   **Synchronized Chart Interaction:**
    *   Pan and zoom on one chart updates all other time-based charts simultaneously.
    *   A global range selector provides a full survey overview for easy navigation.
    *   Hovering over charts shows live data details and a synchronized vertical line.
    *   Clicking on a chart sets a persistent cursor and updates a detailed "Frequency Slice" bar chart.
*   **Synchronized Audio Playback (Live Server Only):**
    *   Listen to `.wav` audio recordings synchronized with the visualization timeline.
    *   Playback seeks automatically when you click on the charts.
    *   Clear visual indicators show which position is currently playing.
    *   Controls for play/pause, playback speed, and a +20dB volume boost for quiet recordings.
*   **Audio File Scanning (Wider Format Support):**
    *   The audio directory scanner now uses `soundfile` (libsndfile) to read durations, enabling support for common formats like WAV, FLAC, OGG, etc. WAV remains supported even without `soundfile`.
*   **Keyboard Navigation:** Use arrow keys for fine-grained time-stepping.
*   **Static HTML Export:** Generate a single, self-contained HTML file of the dashboard for easy sharing and reporting (audio playback is disabled in static mode).
*   **Flexible Region Management:** Build multi-segment regions, merge related selections, and append new segments with the dedicated Add Area mode while metrics update automatically for the combined duration.

## Getting Started

### 1. Prerequisites

*   Python 3.8+
*   **VLC Media Player:** Must be installed on your system for audio playback to function in the live server mode.
*   `soundfile` Python package (included in `requirements.txt`) to read audio durations for multiple formats. On most platforms, wheels include `libsndfile`.
    *   If you build from source or encounter installation issues, install `libsndfile` via your OS package manager (e.g., `brew install libsndfile` on macOS, `apt-get install libsndfile1` on Debian/Ubuntu). Windows wheels typically bundle it.
*   Install the required Python packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

### 2. Run the Application

You can run the tool in three ways from your terminal:

**A) Live Interactive Server (Recommended)**

This is the primary mode for analysis. It starts a local web server and opens the interactive data source selector.

```bash
bokeh serve noise_survey_analysis --show
```

Your browser will open to the **Data Source Selector**, where you can:
*   **Scan a job directory** by providing a base path and job number.
*   **Drag and drop** data files or folders directly onto the window.
*   Select the files you want to include, assign position names, and load the dashboard.
*   **Save the selection** as a portable configuration file (`.json`) for quick reloading later.

**B) Live Server with a Configuration File**

If you have a previously saved configuration file, you can bypass the selector and load the dashboard directly. This is ideal for quickly revisiting a specific analysis.

```bash
bokeh serve noise_survey_analysis --show --args --config /path/to/your/config.json
```

**C) Generate a Static HTML File**

This mode processes data from a specified configuration file and packages the dashboard into a single `.html` file that you can easily email or archive. Audio playback is disabled in this mode.

```bash
python -m noise_survey_analysis.main --generate-static /path/to/your/config.json
```

This will generate a dashboard HTML file in the same directory as your configuration file.

### 4. Configuration File Format (`.json`)

Configuration files are the most robust way to manage your data selections. They are generated automatically when you click "Save Config" in the Data Source Selector, but you can also edit them manually.

The format is designed to be portable, meaning you can move the config file along with its data, and the application will still be able to find the files.

Here is an example of the `v1.2` format:

```json
{
  "version": "1.2",
  "created_at": "2023-10-27T15:00:00.000000",
  "config_base_path": "C:/Users/YourUser/Documents/NoiseSurveys/Job1234",
  "sources": [
    {
      "path": "Svan/Logs/Position1_data.csv",
      "position": "North",
      "type": "svan_log",
      "parser_type": "svan"
    },
    {
      "path": "Audio/Position1/",
      "position": "North",
      "type": "audio_dir",
      "parser_type": "audio"
    },
    {
      "path": "NTi/Position2_data.txt",
      "position": "East",
      "type": "nti_log",
      "parser_type": "nti"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Key Fields:**

*   `"config_base_path"`: The absolute path to the directory that serves as the root for all relative paths below. This is the key to portability.
*   `"sources"`: A list of data source entries.
*   `"path"`: The path to the data file or directory, relative to the `config_base_path`. The application combines these two paths to find the data.
*   `"position"`: The name for the measurement position that appears in the dashboard.
*   `"parser_type"`: The specific parser to use (`svan`, `nti`, `sentry`, `audio`, or `auto`).

## Working with Markers and Regions


The dashboard provides two complementary annotation tools. Markers flag individual timestamps while regions capture spans that
drive the metrics sidebar.

### Marker workflow

- **Drop a marker** with a quick double-click on any time-based chart. A persistent vertical line appears at that timestamp across linked views.
- **Press `M`** to drop a marker at the current tap timestamp. Without an active tap, the keyboard intent centres on the viewport and preserves optional note or colour payloads.
- **Remove a marker** by Ctrl+clicking near it. The thunk removes the closest marker within the current viewport so pixel-perfect clicks are unnecessary.
- **Fine-tune a marker** with Ctrl + Left/Right. When a marker is selected, these shortcuts nudge it using the current keyboard step size so you can align it precisely with an event.
- **Clear all markers** from the Region & Marker toolbar when you want to start from a clean slate.
- **Share context:** Use the marker panel (or the `markerUpdate` actions) to capture notes and colours. `markerUtils.formatMarkersCsv` and `markerUtils.parseMarkersCsv` export and restore annotations for reporting workflows.



### Region workflow

- **Create:** Hold Shift and drag horizontally on a timeseries or spectrogram. Alternatively, press `R` to convert the two most recent markers into a new region on the active position.
- **Select:** Click the overlay or choose a region in the side panel; only one region is active at a time and it drives the metrics view.
- **Refine:** Use Shift + Left/Right to move the right edge and Alt + Left/Right to move the left edge in roughly three-second increments. Drag handles respond to direct manipulation.
- **Add more areas:** Enable Add Area in the panel to stitch additional Shift+drag selections into the active region; toggle it again to exit.
- **Merge related regions:** Select the source region, click Merge Regions, and choose the destination. Notes capture the merge history automatically.
- **Delete:** Hold Ctrl and click within a segment (or use the panel controls) to remove it. Metrics, clipboard summaries, and average spectrum visualisations refresh automatically.
- **Capture notes and metrics:** The detail view refreshes LAeq, LAFmax, LAF90, and the Average Spectrum every time bounds change.

Tip: Markers and regions are stored per position, so you can maintain independent annotations for each measurement site without cross-contamination.



## Importing, Exporting, and Restoring Your Work

### Annotation CSV files

Use the **Menu ▸ Export Annotations (CSV)** command to download a spreadsheet-friendly file containing every marker and region in the current session. The export includes the columns `type`, `id`, `positionId`, `start_utc`, `end_utc`, `note`, and `color`. Marker rows leave `end_utc` empty and record the marker timestamp in `start_utc`. All timestamps are written in UTC using the Excel-ready format `YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss.sss`.

Choose **Menu ▸ Import Annotations (CSV)** to restore annotations captured in the same format. The importer treats all timestamps as UTC milliseconds, rebuilds region areas, and preserves notes and colours before replacing the in-memory marker and region lists. This keeps annotations portable between workspaces and makes it easy to share review notes with collaborators.

### Workspace saves

The **Menu ▸ Save Workspace** option captures the full Redux-style UI state—marker lists, active parameters, selected regions, viewport, and more—along with the set of source configurations currently in memory. The downloaded `workspace-*.json` file can be re-applied later in two ways:

1. **During an active session:** choose **Menu ▸ Load Workspace** and pick the JSON file. The interface is rehydrated immediately; if the save references different source files than the data you currently have loaded, the application warns you so you can reload matching data before continuing.
2. **When launching the server:** provide the saved workspace when starting Bokeh to arrive at the same layout automatically. For example:

    ```bash
    bokeh serve noise_survey_analysis --show --args \
        --config /path/to/config.json \
        --state  /path/to/workspace-2024-01-01T12-00-00.json
    ```

The workspace loader rehydrates the UI while the `--config` argument points to the data to load. If you only need to restore layout choices without changing the dataset, you can omit `--config` and load sources from the selector after the workspace applies.

## Project Structure

```
├── noise_survey_analysis/
│   ├── core/                 # Core backend logic
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── app_callbacks.py  # Python-side server callbacks
│   │   ├── app_setup.py      # Logic for loading and preparing configurations
│   │   ├── audio_handler.py  # VLC audio playback logic
│   │   ├── config.py         # Default configuration values
│   │   ├── data_manager.py   # Orchestrates data loading and aggregation
│   │   ├── data_parsers.py   # Parsers for different file formats (Svan, NTi, etc.)
│   │   ├── data_processors.py# Prepares data for complex Bokeh glyphs
│   │   └── utils.py          # Utility functions
│   ├── js/                   # Helper for loading JS code
│   │   └── loader.py
│   ├── static/js/            # Client-side JavaScript for interactivity
│   │   ├── app.js            # Main JS entry point
│   │   ├── core/             # Redux-style primitives (actions, root reducer)
│   │   │   ├── actions.js
│   │   │   └── rootReducer.js
│   │   ├── features/         # Feature-specific reducers, thunks, selectors, utils
│   │   │   ├── audio/
│   │   │   │   ├── audioReducer.js
│   │   │   │   └── audioThunks.js
│   │   │   ├── interaction/
│   │   │   │   ├── interactionReducer.js
│   │   │   │   └── interactionThunks.js
│   │   │   ├── markers/
│   │   │   │   ├── markersReducer.js
│   │   │   │   └── markersSelectors.js
│   │   │   ├── regions/
│   │   │   │   ├── regionReducer.js
│   │   │   │   ├── regionSelectors.js
│   │   │   │   ├── regionThunks.js
│   │   │   │   └── regionUtils.js
│   │   │   └── view/
│   │   │       ├── viewReducer.js
│   │   │       └── viewSelectors.js
│   │   ├── services/         # App-wide services and handlers
│   │   │   ├── eventHandlers.js
│   │   │   └── renderers.js
│   │   ├── chart-classes.js  # OO classes for charts
│   │   ├── data-processors.js# JS data processing (slicing, filtering)
│   │   ├── registry.js       # Registry wiring between models/controllers
│   │   ├── store.js          # Redux-like store implementation
│   │   ├── thunks.js         # Aggregated thunks facade
│   │   └── utils.js          # JS utility functions
│   ├── ui/                   # UI Widget and Component creation
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── components.py
│   │   └── data_source_selector.py # The interactive UI for selecting data
│   ├── visualization/        # Dashboard assembly and orchestration
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── dashBuilder.py
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── main.py               # Main application entry point
├── config.json               # User configuration for data sources
├── README.md                 # This file
└── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
```

## Core Architectural Concepts

### Data Flow

The application follows a clear, structured data flow:

*   **Application Start (main.py):** The app starts. If a `--config` argument is provided, it loads that file directly. Otherwise, it displays the interactive **Data Source Selector**.
*   **Data Selection (ui/data_source_selector.py):** The user selects files, which generates a source configuration in memory.
*   **Configuration Loading (core/app_setup.py):** The `load_config_and_prepare_sources` function parses the configuration (from file or the selector), resolves file paths, and groups data by position.
*   **Data Management (data_manager.py):** DataManager iterates through the configs. For each file path, it uses NoiseParserFactory to get the correct parser.
*   **Parsing (data_parsers.py):** The appropriate parser (e.g., NTiFileParser) reads a file and converts it into a standardized ParsedData object, separating broadband (totals_df) and spectral (spectral_df) data.
*   **Aggregation (data_manager.py):** DataManager adds the ParsedData to a PositionData object, which aggregates all data for a single measurement position (e.g., merging a log file and a summary file for the same site).
*   **Processing (data_processors.py):** Before visualization, GlyphDataProcessor transforms the raw spectral DataFrames into the specific, pre-padded data structures required by Bokeh's high-performance Image glyph.
*   **Component Creation (components.py):** Classes like TimeSeriesComponent and SpectrogramComponent create the individual Bokeh figures and their ColumnDataSources.
*   **Dashboard Assembly (dashBuilder.py):** DashBuilder orchestrates the entire process: it calls the data processor, instantiates all UI components, assembles them into a final layout, and sets up the JavaScript bridge.

### JavaScript State Management

The front-end interactivity is managed by a self-contained JavaScript application architecture (in `static/js/`). It follows a modern state management pattern similar to Redux:

*   **core/actions.js** defines the global action vocabulary and creators. `store.js` uses **core/rootReducer.js** to combine the feature reducers into the application state tree.
*   **features/** contains isolated slices for each domain (view, interaction, markers, regions, audio). Each feature provides its own reducer, selectors, and thunks so business logic stays modular.
*   **services/eventHandlers.js** listens for Bokeh UI events (e.g., tap, zoom), translates them into semantic thunks, and dispatches them.
*   **data-processors.js** computes derived data (e.g., slicing spectrogram buffers) whenever state changes.
*   **services/renderers.js** consumes the latest state plus derived data to update the visible Bokeh models.

This pattern keeps the code organized, predictable, and easier to debug and extend.
